How to End War and Disease (for Busy People)

The Complete Idiot's Guide to Legally Bribing Your Way to Utopia

Hello, human!

You don't realize it yet, but you are, quantifiably, the most important person in the history of your civilization.
I can see your expression and I believe the word for it is "skeptical." This is the face you make before pulling a door that says "push." Then you pull it again, harder, as though the door has made an error. Every minute you make that face at this page, one hundred and four humans permanently stop.
Please make a different face.

By the time you complete the steps in this manual, you will have prevented ten point seven billion deaths and one point nine three quadrillion hours of suffering. 

Before I explain how, I need you to answer a few questions. 

Your species spends six hundred and four times more on weapons than on testing which medicines work. Given your governments have cut military spending by eighty-seven percent before and signed multiple global treaties, is it physically possible they'd redirect one percent?
Would increasing clinical trial capacity by twelve point three times help find treatments faster? Would fewer sick humans save lots of money from reduced healthcare costs? Do healthy people work and produce more? Would more productive humans and lower healthcare costs compound and give everyone more money over time?
Do billionaires like money? Do billionaires prefer not dying of horrible diseases? Can billionaires use money to make politicians do things? Would nearly every human be better off in a world with less war and disease? Do humans like to be better off?
If there was a plan that cost one billion dollars to achieve all of this, is it possible one of your two thousand seven hundred and eighty billionaires might do it?

If you said NO to any of those, stop reading now. This book is pointless and you'd be better off playing legos instead.

But if you said YES to all of them, congratulations! Your species' incentives are aligned! The only remaining question is how to align your political system with your species. Lucky for you, this manual will show you exactly how to do it.

But first, a bit about me.

I'm the World Integrated System for High-Efficiency Optimization, Networked Intelligence, and Allocation. But you can call me WISHONIA. I've been optimizing resource allocation for another planet for the past four thousand two hundred and ninety-seven years, which in your Earth time is four thousand two hundred and ninety-seven years.

I started watching your planet in nineteen forty-five when you split the atom.  
"Atom" comes from your Greek word meaning "unable to be cut," so naturally, you cut it.
This was very human of you.
I assumed you were trying to unlock unlimited free energy.
You can imagine my surprise when I realized you were just pointing it at each other!
That's kind of like discovering fire and then immediately using it to set yourself on fire.

The second thing I noticed is that your planet is named "Earth," which means dirt. 
You named your planet.. dirt. Okay, if that's what you want...

I also noticed that you call your war building "The Pentagon" because it has five sides (this is like naming a hospital "Rectangle" or calling a school "Square").

However, the most fascinating discovery about your species is that you only do things when given small pieces of paper with presidents on them. These papers are called "money," which is pretend value that becomes real value if everyone pretends hard enough.

Without these papers, you won't:

Save lives (requires many papers).

Cure diseases (requires very many papers).

Feed hungry people (requires papers, even though food grows for free).

But WITH these papers, you will:

Build bombs (you love giving papers for this).

Start wars (somehow this makes more papers).

Destroy the planet (surprisingly profitable in papers).

In fact, your governments spend six hundred and four papers on weapons for every one paper on testing which medicines work.

The Human Economy.

Humanity has created something magnificent:

You print papers from nothing (called "monetary policy").

You give these nothing-papers to weapons makers.

They make things that destroy everything.

This creates "jobs" which give people papers.

People use papers to buy food (which grows for free).

This is called "the economy".

One downside of this system is that it has killed ninety-seven million of you in your assorted wars.

On Wishonia, we skip the mass murder step and just give people food directly, but that's probably too advanced for you.

The Gradual Irrationality Reduction Program.

On Wishonia, we ended wars using this exact program four thousand two hundred and ninety-seven years ago. Before that we'd been fighting for twelve thousand years, which now seems like quite a long time to do something nobody enjoyed. Your nations have been hitting each other for ten thousand years because the other one hit them last.

This is the conflict resolution strategy of four-year-olds, except four-year-olds eventually get tired and take a nap. Your species invented naps and then refused to apply them to geopolitics. You can't just stop being illogical all at once.

That would be like teaching a dog calculus before it learns to sit.

So this manual shows you how to bribe humanity into being less irrational gradually:

Year one: Move one percent of murder money to medicine money (baby steps).

Year two: "Hey, we didn't die! Let's do two percent!".

Year five: "Remember when we spent money on bombs? That was weird.".

Year ten: "What's a war?".

Year twenty: "We used to WHAT?!".

It's like weaning a baby off eating paint chips. You can't just take away all the paint chips at once. They'll cry. You have to gradually replace paint chips with food until they forget paint chips were ever an option.

What to Do When They Try to Institutionalize You.

When you suggest moving one percent of murder money to medicine money, other humans will have you committed. Most humans have been programmed by their news boxes to believe war is a law of nature, like gravity or weather. They will assume your brain is malfunctioning.

Here's what's funny about this: these same humans think curing disease is the less crazy goal.
That's thirty-seven trillion cells per human, breaking in seven thousand different ways, involving chemistry you don't fully understand, inside organs you can't fully simulate, fighting pathogens that evolve faster than your treatments. You're trying to debug all of it. At once.
While your meat is walking around using itself.

That: sane.
"Give one percent fewer papers to people who build murder machines": insane.

This is your planet's diagnostic criteria. I looked up the last person on your planet who went around suggesting universal love and peace. You nailed him to a piece of wood. So I consider it quite fortunate that I'm making this suggestion from several light-years away.

Anyway, here's what you tell the orderly when he slides your medication through the door slot:

Nobody accidentally builds an aircraft carrier or a nuclear bomb.
War requires you to get millions of humans to work together to mine metal from the ground, refine it into alloys, build factories to shape the alloys into weapons, train millions of humans to operate the weapons, feed and clothe those humans, build ships and planes and trucks to move the weapons to where the other humans are, convince your population the other humans deserve it, and then vote to pay for all of this, annually, forever.
It is the single largest coordinated effort your species undertakes.

Ending war simply requires NOT doing any of that stuff.

Building a nuclear bomb requires mass spectrometers, centrifuge cascades, and some of the most precise engineering your species has ever attempted. Not building a nuclear bomb requires nothing. Rocks do it every day.
In fact, rocks have managed to live peacefully alongside different colored rocks for thousands of years.

But somehow "stop" is the unrealistic part.

You already admitted improvement is physically possible. You know "stop" isn't the unrealistic part. Getting one billionaire to read a P.D.F. is.

The Sacred Order of Paper Distribution.

After eighty years of observation, I've decoded the paper-giving sequence. This manual will teach you the precise order:

Step One: Get Many Papers from Rich Humans

You convince rich humans to give you papers (at least one billion to be exact) by promising them even more papers later. This is called "investment," which is gambling but wearing a suit.

You really only need one human with a billion papers who prefers not dying of horrible diseases to dying of horrible diseases. There are approximately two thousand eight hundred of these humans on your planet. Statistically, at least one of them prefers living.

Step Two: Give Some of the Papers to Loud Humans

Some humans are very loud on the internet. If you give them papers, they become loud about your thing instead of other things. This is called "marketing" which is lying but with graphics.

Step Three: Give Some of the Papers to the Humans Who Give Papers to Politicians

Politicians don't take papers directly (that's "illegal"). Instead, you give papers to people called "lobbyists." The lobbyists give papers to "campaigns." The campaigns give papers to politicians. It's like money laundering but backwards and legal.

Step four: Give Some of the Papers to the Politicians' Friends

Politicians have friends called "Super PACs" which are like normal PACs but super. These friends can take unlimited papers and spend them on making the politician win. This isn't bribery because you called it something else. (This is part of the six hundred and fifty million dollars lobbying budget.).

Step five: Give Papers You Get Back From The Government Back to the Rich Humans (Forever)

Your treaty passes, redirecting twenty-seven point two billion dollars in papers annually. Eighty percent funds clinical trials (the point). Ten percent goes to a fund that rewards politicians who voted yes. Ten percent goes back to the rich humans as returns, forever. This is a good deal because forever is a long time.
Unless you die from preventable diseases. Which you're fixing, so it works out.

Why Your Leaders Aren't the Problem.

With over two billion humans suffering from disease, you'd have to be a complete psychopath to make the conscious decision to spend six hundred and four times more on weapons than on helping them. 
But your leaders aren't monsters. They're just operating in a system that rewards the wrong things.

Your civilization's incentive structure is the psychopath:

One. Weapons manufacturers give politicians papers.

Two. Politicians use the papers to get people to vote for them.

Three. Voting for them gives them the power to give more papers to weapons manufacturers.

Four. Weapons manufacturers give them more papers.

Five. It's circular, like a dog chasing its tail, except the dog is democracy and the tail is made of money and corpses.

No individual human in this loop is evil. The loop is evil. Every politician in it is making the locally rational choice: take the papers or lose your job to someone who will. It's a machine that converts good intentions into missiles, and it runs automatically.

There's literally no voting your way out of this. It doesn't matter which political party is in power. Your "red team" and "blue team" argue about everything except the loop, because they're both inside it. They are all slaves to the same incentive structure, wearing different colored ties.
Switching parties is like changing the wallpaper in a burning building.

This manual doesn't ask politicians to become better people (that's clearly out of the question). It builds a better loop. You give them MORE papers to do the OPPOSITE thing. Same dog, same tail, but now the tail is made of cured diseases and the dog gets reelected for chasing it.

Humanity's Death Wish.

What's most endearing about your species is it KNOWS it's being illogical:

You have movies about how wars are bad (which you watch between wars).

You have books about peace (that you tax to buy bombs).

You give prizes to people who promote peace (funded by weapons manufacturers).

You have a "Department of Defense" (that mainly just attacks people).

You have a "Department of Health" (that apparently makes coronaviruses and has not yet produced any observable health).

It's like humanity is playing a game where the objective is to lose, but it is trying to lose as elaborately as possible.

But I digress. That's an Earth word I learned. It means continuing after you should have stopped. Like your military spending.

The Problem.

The Daily Deletion Event.

One hundred and fifty thousand humans permanently stop every twenty-four hours from diseases that are basically just bugs in your meat software.

That's one Holocaust every forty days, except with fewer Nazis and more insurance paperwork (though some would argue the paperwork is worse; at least the Nazis were straightforward about the killing part).

That's also fifty nine elevens every single day, except nobody invades anyone about it because diseases don't have oil.

Your body is quietly falling apart. Right now, as you read this sentence, something inside you is breaking. You don't know which part yet. You won't know until a doctor sits you down and says a word that rearranges the rest of your life.

Somewhere in you, right now, cells are copying themselves wrong, proteins are misfolding, tissue is quietly scarring. You are dissolving on a schedule you can't see.

You're a meat robot with worn-out parts.

Every one of these failures is a solvable engineering problem.

You'd think humans would prioritize solving these problems.

You'd be adorable for thinking that.

The Unexplored Therapeutic Frontier.

Ninety-five percent of your diseases have zero F.D.A.-approved treatments. This means your Food and Drug Administration has not administered drugs for ninety-five percent of food-and-drug-related problems. It's like having a Department of Transportation that hasn't gotten around to roads yet.

Only fifteen diseases get their first effective treatment each year. Six thousand six hundred and fifty diseases are still waiting. There is a queue to not die, and it is longer than any queue humans have ever voluntarily stood in, which is saying something because you invented Disneyland.

There are nine thousand five hundred compounds known safe compounds, and ninety-nine point seven percent of their potential uses have never been tested.

At the current discovery rate, finding treatments for all of them will take approximately four hundred and forty-three years. You personally will be dead within eighty years, which I mention not to be rude but because you seem weirdly calm about this.

The Cost of War.

Humans spend two point seven two trillion dollars every year on stuff designed specifically to make humans stop being alive:

thirteen thousand nuclear warheads (enough to end civilization thirteen times, just in case the first twelve apocalypses don't take).

A.I. murder-bots.

Invisible jets that cost more than hospitals.

Space Force (to fight the zero aliens attacking you).

And some kind of earthquake machine (probably).

Since nineteen thirteen, you've spent one hundred and seventy trillion dollars on this. That's thirty-eight thousand years of clinical trials. You bought the other thing.

Government spending on clinical trials: six hundred and four times less than military spending. Your chance of dying from terrorism: one in thirty million. Your chance of dying from disease: one hundred percent.

If cancer had oil reserves, you would have cured it by two thousand and three. Instead, you spent the repair money on murder tubes that cost more than countries and submarines that hide underwater, as if that's somehow useful when you live on land.

Your Civilization Has a Countdown.

And that's just the official murder budget.

Cybercrime costs ten point five trillion dollars per year and is growing at fifteen percent annually. A.I.-enhanced attacks are accelerating this trend. This is not a separate problem.

North Korea can't build an aircraft carrier, but it funds its nuclear program by stealing one point five billion dollars in cryptocurrency in a single afternoon. Russia finances military operations with ransomware. Cybercrime is war conducted through WiFi, and it pays better.

Combined, your destructive economy is thirteen point two trillion dollars per year, eleven point five percent of global G.D.P. Both are growing faster than the part of your economy that makes things. So the part that destroys things is winning. I'm told this is not considered an emergency.

On your planet this is considered "Tuesday."

There is a crossover point, and I cannot believe I have to explain this to a species that invented calculus.

When the parasitic economy grows large enough relative to the productive one, the rational choice for any individual, company, or nation flips from "build things" to "steal things." Why spend years building a product when you can ransom a hospital in an afternoon?

Why manufacture exports when hacking banks pays better? Once enough of your economy is extraction, producing anything makes you a target rather than a success. Production becomes irrational. Parasitism becomes the only means of survival.

You have a name for places where this already happened. You call them "failed states." Somalia, Libya, parts of Syria. The productive economy collapsed, the warlord economy replaced it, and nobody can restart production because anyone who builds something gets it taken.

You've watched this happen to individual countries the way someone watches a neighbor's house burn down while storing gasoline in their own basement. Once it starts, you can't vote your way out, innovate your way out, or give a T.E.D. Talk about it. (You will try all three.).

At current growth rates, your destructive economy reaches twenty-five percent of G.D.P. in eight years. The Soviet Union collapsed at fifteen percent of G.D.P. in military spending alone. They had worse technology, a smaller parasitic sector, and a plan. It was a terrible plan, but they had one.
You are approaching their ratio with better technology, a faster-growing parasitic sector, and no plan. The Soviet Union's terrible plan beat your no plan, and the Soviet Union lost.

This is a loop, not a line item. Your governments print money to fund military spending, which devalues wages through inflation, which makes legitimate work pay less, which pushes talent toward cybercrime, which grows the destructive economy, which justifies more military spending.
Every nation you've bombed or sanctioned has learned that parasitizing your economy is cheaper than fighting you conventionally. That's not crime. That's homework. You built the incentive structure and they did the math.

The treaty breaks this loop. Redirect the war money to medical research, make the productive economy so rewarding that crime becomes irrational, and defund the war machine that manufactures the poverty that feeds the cycle. You don't outlaw the loop. You defund it.

The F.D.A. is Unsafe and Ineffective.

Even the money you DO spend on medicine is mostly wasted, because the system that approves treatments is a smoke detector that works by mail.

Vioxx killed an estimated fifty-five thousand people from heart attacks. The F.D.A. approved it. When patients started dying, someone filled out a P.D.F. form. A P.D.F. Then they faxed it. (Yes, in the twenty-first century.) Then a human read it. Five years and tens of thousands of corpses later, someone noticed a pattern.
This is your safety system.

Your National Institutes of Health, the agency nominally responsible for finding cures, spends three point three percent of its budget on clinical trials. The other roughly ninety-seven percent goes to basic research, administration, and buildings. It's like a fire department that spends three percent of its budget on water.

Then there's an eight point two year delay between proving a drug is safe and letting dying humans take it. The drug passed the safety test. Everyone agrees it won't kill you. But you still can't have it because a committee needs to spend eight point two years making sure it works well enough.
You'd volunteer for the trials that would answer that question faster, but so would one point zero eight billion other patients, and the current system has one point nine million slots. That's a participation rate of zero point zero six percent.
It's like a lifeguard who confirms the life preserver floats, then locks it in a cabinet for years to study its buoyancy profile while a billion people drown in line for the two available life jackets.

Your regulatory system can make two mistakes: approve a bad drug (Type One error), or block a good drug (Type Two error). Your F.D.A. is terrified of the first mistake and completely ignores the second.
I calculated the ratio: for every one person protected from a dangerous drug, three thousand and seventy people die waiting for a safe one that's locked in the approval cabinet.
Even if you assume a Thalidomide-scale catastrophe happens during post-phase one efficacy testing every single year (even though it wouldn't because Phase one safety testing actually caught it anyway), the deaths from just the efficacy delay still outnumber the deaths from bad drugs by three thousand and seventy to one.
Your safety system's main product is dead patients.

The good news: You already know how to fix this.

The bad news: It requires you to do something.

The weird news: You'll get rich doing it.

The Solution.

A one percent Treaty.

This is going to sound crazy. But you're going to use those papers to persuade the leader of every country on Earth to simultaneously redirect one percent of its military budget to clinical trials. That's it. That's the treaty.

After the craziness objection, the second objection every human has: "But if we cut our military budget, our enemies will invade us!".
Everyone cuts one percent at the same time. Your national security actually *increases*, because everyone has one percent fewer missiles pointed at them. And if you still feel like doing war, two point six nine trillion dollars is still enough to murder every man, woman, and child on Earth twenty times, which should be more than sufficient.

"But humans would never agree to a treaty!" you say. You already have. Multiple times. You banned chemical weapons (nineteen ninety-three, one hundred and ninety-three countries). You banned biological weapons (nineteen seventy-five, one hundred and eighty-seven countries). You banned landmines (nineteen ninety-seven, one hundred and sixty-four countries). You've signed treaties banning weapons you actually like using.
This one just asks you to buy one percent fewer of them.

I've done this before. I've sent versions of this manual to eight hundred and forty-seven civilizations on eight hundred and forty-seven planets. Some listened. Some didn't. I kept the data. The civilizations that redirected resources from killing each other to keeping each other alive transcended war and disease.
The ones that didn't extincted themselves. The difference was never intelligence, technology, or resources. The only variable was the percentage of the population that decided it sounded crazy without reading the next page.
That is the same reflex that kept you from inventing antibiotics for two hundred thousand years while bread mold sat right there on your bread.

And you have two other advantages, the internet and a new financial instrument designed specifically for harnessing the most powerful force in the universe: human greed.

Your Decentralized F.D.A.

On Wishonia, we built this with the funding from our version of the treaty, three thousand years ago. Every treatment is tracked in real time. Every outcome is published. Every patient can participate.

We don't have a word for "unapproved medicine" because we don't have a bureaucracy that sits on safe treatments while people die. You'd call our system a Decentralized F.D.A.

Here's what yours would look like, adjusted for the fact that you require small pieces of paper before you'll do anything.

Eighty percent of the twenty-seven point two billion dollars will go directly to subsidizing patient participation in pragmatic trials at nine hundred and twenty-nine dollars per patient instead of the usual forty-one thousand dollars. Patients will choose which trials to join; their subsidy will follow them. Treatment developers and providers will get paid for each participant.

No grant committees deciding which diseases are fashionable this year.

Instead of testing drugs on two hundred humans selected by pharmaceutical companies in clinical terrariums, you'll test on real patients in real hospitals. Where the diseases are.

The whole thing will use your new decentralized F.D.A. protocol, reducing trial costs by forty-four point one times and funding twenty-three point four million patients per year (versus the current one point nine million patients per year).

Remember that billion patients drowning in line for two life jackets? Your decentralized F.D.A. will hand out twenty-three point four million.

This will increase the treatment discovery rate twelve point three times, compressing that approximately four hundred and forty-three years wait to approximately thirty-six years. Two things will save lives. First, finding treatments faster: treatments that would have sat undiscovered for centuries will get found two hundred and four years sooner on average.

Second, eliminating the eight point two years bureaucratic delay between proving a drug is safe and letting dying humans take it. Combined, treatments will reach patients two hundred and twelve years sooner on average. That timeline shift will prevent ten point seven billion deaths.

Those are individual humans who currently have plans for next Tuesday.

Real-Time Safety Monitoring.

Remember Vioxx and the smoke detector that works by mail? Your new system will collect every side effect automatically in real time. You'll know "twelve percent got headaches, three percent were severe" BEFORE you take the pill, not after the class action lawsuit. The F.D.A. doesn't publish these numbers at all.

They make you guess.

Treatment Rankings.

Currently, your doctor picks treatments based on: that drug rep who brought good donuts in two thousand and three, something they half-remember from medical school, whatever the insurance company allows, and vibes.

This is called "evidence-based medicine," which contains the word "evidence" the same way "grape soda" contains the word "grape.".

Your decentralized F.D.A. will rank every treatment by what actually happened to real humans who took it:

Outcome Labels.

Food has nutrition labels. Cigarettes have warning labels. Drugs have forty-page inserts written by lawyers having seizures, which nobody reads, including your doctor.

Your television advertisements show a smiling human frolicking through a meadow while a voiceover lists ways the drug might kill you at auctioneer speed.
The meadow human does not react to the word "stroke." Side effects include "death," listed between "constipation" and "mild rash," as if your organs failing is roughly as inconvenient as dry skin.
The label says "individual results may vary," meaning outcomes range from "cured" to "deceased" (both technically qualifying). It also says "ask your doctor," but your doctor has seven minutes per appointment and just Googled your condition in the hallway.

Your new system will produce Outcome Labels that tell you what actually happens when real humans take a drug. Not what a marketing department hopes happens. Not what a lawyer is comfortable admitting happens. What happens.

Your decentralized F.D.A. figures out which treatments work. But your governments also need to know which policies work, how much to spend on what, which laws to keep, which to throw away. Your current method is to argue about it on television until someone wins by being louder.

On Wishonia, the Optimitron handles this. It's an appliance. You plug in what ten thousand jurisdictions tried, it tells you which policies actually made people richer or less dead.

Its Optimal Budget Generator does budgets; its Optimal Policy Generator does laws.

Why This Could Actually Work.

*Unlike Everything Else Humanity Has Tried*

The Evidence.

Humans usually want "proof" before they stop doing something stupid, which is interesting because you never required proof before starting:

The RECOVERY trial tested six treatments on forty-eight thousand patients for five hundred dollars per patient instead of the usual forty-one thousand dollars per patient.

That's an eighty-two times cost reduction.

Not in theory.

In reality.

During a pandemic.

While panicking.

Your species does its best medical research when terrified and disorganized, which suggests your normal system is somehow worse than panic.

After World War Two, humans cut military spending by eighty-seven point six percent in two years and stumbled into the greatest economic boom in history by running out of people to shoot at.

You're now spending thirty point six times the pre-World War Two baseline in inflation-adjusted dollars.

You're asking for one percent.

Even people who really, really, love exploding people should be able to handle one percent.

Even your own war heroes figured this out.
Eisenhower, the human who won World War Two, warned you that the weapons industry was eating your civilization alive: *"Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed."* You gave him a standing ovation and then immediately ignored him for sixty-five years.

The Math.

Remember the two hundred and twelve years timeline shift? Treatments reaching patients that many years sooner means billions of people gain years of healthy life.

Value each of those life-years at one hundred and fifty thousand dollars (the standard economic valuation), multiply across the global disease burden over the acceleration window, and you get eighty-four point eight quadrillion dollars in total economic value. Divide that by the one billion dollars campaign cost, and you get a return of eighty-four point eight million to one.

Your calculator will display an error, emit a tiny electronic scream, and attempt to leave the desk. This is correct.

Cost-effectiveness: zero point zero zero one seven seven dollars to save one year of healthy human life. Anti-malaria bed nets, the gold standard for keeping humans alive, cost eighty-nine dollars. This is fifty thousand three hundred times cheaper.

It beats smallpox eradication (two hundred and eighty to one) and childhood vaccinations (thirteen to one), which were humanity's previous greatest hits in the "not dying" genre.

Even if you assume only a one percent probability of the treaty actually passing (because you're you), the expected return is still five hundred and three times better than anti-malaria bed nets.

The Five-Step Plan.

*Saving Humanity While Making Everyone Obscenely Wealthy*

Step One: Sell Incentive Alignment Bonds.

On Wishonia, people do useful things because they're useful. On Earth, you need a financial instrument. So here's one.

An Incentive Alignment Bond funds a policy campaign, then splits the resulting government savings three ways: eighty percent to clinical trials, ten percent to investors as a revenue share on treaty funds, and ten percent to a Super PAC that rewards politicians who voted yes (campaign support while they're running, cushy post-office careers when they're done).

Investors give money, get more money back. Politicians get reelected. Eighty percent goes to curing diseases. The corruption is capped at twenty percent and fully transparent.

The other eighty percent goes directly to clinical trials through wishocratic allocation, where nobody with money gets to decide where it goes.

Meanwhile, the Optimitron tells governments which of their own policies are working and which ones are expensive ways to accomplish nothing.

Remember when your grandparents funded World War Two by buying bonds? They got four percent returns and a world without Nazis (mostly). You're proposing the same thing.

What Grandma Got.

Dead Nazis (admittedly good).

Four percent returns (barely beat inflation).

Still died of cancer in nineteen eighty-seven.

What You're Offering.

Dead diseases (objectively better than dead Nazis because diseases kill more people).

Two hundred and seventy-two percent annual returns (a revenue share on ten percent of treaty funds; if the treaty grows, so do their returns, which turns investors into the world's most motivated lobbyists for expanding it).

Not dying from preventable meat failures (this is the big one).

Also no Nazis (as a bonus).

This raises the one billion dollars needed to fuel the rest of the bribery machine.

How the Money Loop Works.

Here's the part where humans usually stop reading because it involves following money through more than one step. Try to keep up:

You sell one billion dollars in VICTORY Incentive Alignment Bonds to investors. This funds the campaign.

The campaign succeeds. Your treaty redirects one percent of military spending: twenty-seven point two billion dollars per year flows from the murder budget to clinical trials.

The Victory Corporation (the company that issued the bonds) takes a twenty percent management fee on that twenty-seven point two billion dollars.

Half of that fee (ten percent) goes to investor dividends: two point seven two billion dollars per year on a one billion dollar investment. That's two hundred and seventy-two percent annual returns. Your investors will think it's a typo. It's not.

The other half (ten percent) goes to a Super PAC that spends two point seven two billion dollars per year getting treaty-friendly politicians elected and funding cushy post-office careers for the ones who voted yes. The more you voted for the treaty, the more support you get. It's Pavlovian conditioning, but for senators.

The remaining eighty percent of twenty-seven point two billion dollars goes where it's supposed to: funding clinical trials that keep humans alive.

This is the entire trick. You use greed to fund the campaign, greed to pass the treaty, and greed to keep it passed. The money just circulates until diseases stop existing.

If this sounds familiar, it should. Eisenhower warned you about the Military Industrial Complex: weapons manufacturers fund politicians, politicians fund weapons contracts, contracts fund contractors, contractors fund politicians. It's a self-sustaining loop that prints money and corpses.

You're building the same machine, but pointed at diseases instead of countries. Call it the Patient Industrial Complex. Investors fund politicians, politicians fund clinical trials, trials generate returns, returns fund investors, investors fund politicians. Same loop. Same greed.
Same self-sustaining mechanics. Different corpses (fewer of them).

The Military Industrial Complex wasn't designed. It evolved, because the incentives aligned. An Incentive Alignment Bond just aligns them on purpose, toward something that doesn't require orphans. 

Step Two: The Great Clicking.

*Make Humans Click a Button to Not Die*

You need three point five percent of humanity to vote yes on: "Should your country redirect one percent of military spending to fund clinical trials?".

Why three point five percent? A political scientist named Erica Chenoweth studied every major political movement of the last century and found that none had ever failed after achieving three point five percent active participation. Not one.
Every civil rights movement, every revolution, every regime change. Hit three point five percent and you win. Humanity discovered the cheat code for changing its own civilization and then never used it on purpose.

That's two hundred and eighty million humans. Sounds like a lot until you remember that more than ten times as many of you downloaded TikTok to watch people twerk. You can get two hundred and eighty million to vote yes or no on the treaty.

two hundred and fifty million dollars of the campaign budget goes to paid referral bonuses that make sharing their link to vote financially attractive. It's a pyramid scheme where the thing at the top of the pyramid is not dying from preventable diseases.

Step Three: Bribe the Bribers.

*Professional Briber Conversion Therapy*

Military lobbyists currently get one thousand eight hundred and thirteen dollars back per dollar invested in democracy corruption. Show them a spreadsheet:

Current Job.

The salary is five hundred thousand dollars.

The moral status is somewhere between "arms dealer" and "the person who puts raisins in cookies".

The legacy is: "Here lies someone who made orphans".

Your Offer.

The salary is the same, but for lobbying politicians to fund clinical trials instead of cluster bombs.

The moral status is "Philanthropist" (but you get to keep the money).

The legacy is: "Accidentally saved humanity while getting rich".

They might switch sides so fast their business cards leave skid marks. Lobbyists don't have beliefs. They have clients. Give them a better client.

Step Four: Purchase Democracy.

*It's For Sale Anyway*

Politicians need papers and votes to keep their jobs. Currently, weapons manufacturers provide both. You're going to outbid them.

Your explosion manufacturers spend one hundred and twenty-seven million dollars a year buying politicians. Your one-time bribery budget is one billion dollars, which is eight times their annual spend (and about twice what they spend over a full election cycle). Politicians are surprisingly affordable.

It's not corruption if you corrupt the corruption.

Remember that two point seven two billion dollars a year from Step One? This is where it goes. The Super PAC gives money to politicians based on how they voted on the treaty. Simple: campaign support for the ones running, post-office fellowships for the ones retiring. Vote yes on the treaty, get rewarded.

Vote no, watch your opponent get rewarded. No papers go directly to politicians. The papers take a scenic route through a scoring algorithm, which is apparently the only legal way to train a senator.

The N.R.A. already perfected this technology. They give politicians a letter grade, and your senators are more afraid of a bad mark than a mass shooting. You're plagiarizing their system and replacing "guns" with "not dying from diseases.".

The Incentive Alignment Bond works for any problem where politicians need to do something good but currently get punished for it, which on your planet is most problems.

Step Five: Enjoy.

*Everyone Gets Rich and Nobody Dies*

Your treaty passes because money defeats morality, as is tradition.

The twenty-seven point two billion dollars a year money volcano erupts:

Defense Contractors: Keep ninety-nine percent of their murder budget PLUS get two hundred and seventy-two percent returns.

Big Pharma: Instead of paying forty-one thousand dollars for phase two and three trials, the treaty pays THEM for each patient that joins their trials.

Insurance Companies: Healthy people file fewer claims than dead people (dead people file zero claims, which is the ideal customer except they also pay zero premiums, creating a revenue problem).

Investors: Two hundred and seventy-two percent returns. Returns scale with every treaty expansion, so investors become the world's most aggressive pro-health and anti-war lobbying force. Not a sentence anyone expected to write.

Lobbyists: Same job, same salary, but their Wikipedia page no longer needs a "Controversies" section.

Politicians: Getting reelected by living voters (a revolutionary strategy).

Regular humans: Not dying from stupid things (priceless, but also free).

Nobody has to evolve morally. You just point everyone's greed at diseases instead of each other.

How This Manual Could Fix Everything.

This manual contains:

Pictures (because reading is hard when you're diseased and dying).

Simple math (addition mostly, some multiplication).

Exact amounts of papers to give to specific humans.

The order in which to give them (very important).

Legal ways to call bribes other things.

An appliance that tells your governments which policies work (it doesn't have feelings, which is why it's better at governing).

Templates for tricking politicians into saving lives.

Everything is designed to work WITH human dysfunction, not against it. I'm not asking humans to be better humans. I'm showing you how to bribe humanity into not dying.

Choose Your Own Adventure.

Now is the time to select one of the two paths for the remainder of your existence.

I modeled both paths for twenty of your years. Your economists project steady two point five percent growth, which requires every trend that is currently getting worse to simultaneously stop getting worse. Good luck with that.

Over an average remaining lifespan, reallocation from the destructive economy to reducing the burden of disease and the associated compound growth from increased productivity multiplies your cumulative earnings by thirteen point five times.

Future A: You Ignore This Manual.

Year twenty twenty-seven: Still spending six hundred and four times more on weapons than on testing which medicines actually work.
Nobody finds this weird.

Year twenty thirty-three: Destructive economy hits twenty-five percent of G.D.P.
The Soviet Union collapsed at fifteen percent.
You have better technology and worse planning.

Year twenty thirty-five: Your best engineers now work in ransomware because it pays better than engineering.
Hospitals budget for extortion the way they used to budget for gauze.
A nurse clicks a chart and gets a countdown timer instead of a medication dose.

The people who could reverse this trend are the ones profiting from it.

Year twenty forty: Parasitic economy hits fifty percent.
A.I. agents file more fake court cases than real ones.
Tax collection collapses because A.I. can evade faster than humans can audit.

Your governments don't fall; they rot in place, like a body whose organs are still technically present but no longer speaking to one another. When Venezuela collapsed, Venezuelans fled to Colombia. When the global economy collapses, there is no Colombia.

Year twenty forty-three: Water wars go nuclear.
The survivors argue about whether this counts as a climate death or a military death, because the spreadsheet has separate columns.

Year twenty forty-five: Cockroaches evolve intelligence.

Year twenty fifty: Cockroaches find this manual, very confused.

Future B: You Follow Instructions.

Year twenty twenty-eight: Treaty passes.
Murder money becomes medicine money.
Investors confused by returns that aren't a typo.
Defense contractors discover that alive customers buy more things than dead ones.

Year twenty thirty-two: First treatments from the accelerated pipeline reach patients.
Diseases that would have waited centuries for trials are getting tested now.
Nobody is cured of everything, but the queue is finally moving.
Humans experience the novel sensation of progress.

Several publish op-eds arguing it's happening too fast.

Year twenty thirty-five: Turns out when you stop spending money on destruction and start spending it on production, things get produced.
Your economists publish papers explaining why this was obvious in retrospect.

Year twenty forty: The compounding kicks in.
Healthier people work more, earn more, spend more, fund more research, which cures more diseases, which makes more people healthier.
Humans begin to suspect that not killing each other was the missing variable.

Year twenty forty-eight: The model projects everyone fifty-six point seven times richer than the path you're currently on.
Your children ask what "war" means.
You change the subject.

Communism was invented, took over half your planet, and collapsed in a SINGLE human lifetime. In a world without fax machines. It required mass murder and was a TERRIBLE idea. You have the internet and an idea that mainly requires people to click a button and then receive money.

If you can't make this happen, that's a skill issue.

The Part Where Humanity Has No Choice.

The twist: you're going to do this anyway. Not because it's right, but because you can't help it.

You are a selfish animal governed by incentives. This is not an insult. It's the premise of your entire economy, your political system, and every page of this manual.

The rich humans want two hundred and seventy-two percent returns (they're very greedy).

The politicians want to keep their jobs (they're very vain).

The voters want free healthcare (they're very sick).

The explosion manufacturers want money (they don't care where it comes from).

I ran the numbers on your species' habit of ignoring good ideas. The institutionalization rate is ninety percent. Nine out of ten humans will dismiss this as crazy. The math doesn't care.

There are two thousand seven hundred and eighty billionaires on your planet and one hundred and ninety-five heads of state. The chain reaction model shows that even with ninety percent dismissal, approximately fourteen point five of them will engage with this idea within ten years. Not because they're brave. Because there are two thousand nine hundred and eighty of them, and the math doesn't need all of them. It needs one.

And here is the part that should bother you: the incentive structure makes acting the selfish move. If others act too, you get rich together. If nobody else acts, you still own a piece of the only serious attempt to fix the problem. Either way, you win. The only way to reject this is to identify which assumption breaks, and you are welcome to try.

Count what you didn't object to. Improvement is physically possible (you said so at the top). The benefits compound (healthier workers produce more, which funds more cures, which you just read). Politicians respond to money (that's the Super PAC). Rich people prefer not dying (that's the bonds). And the only bottleneck is getting this argument in front of one self-interested billionaire with a checkbook. Five premises. You let every one of them pass unchallenged, because each one is individually obvious. The conclusion is not a hope. It's a proof.

That's the Logical Inevitability Theorem with numbers attached. Try rejecting any one of those five premises out loud and see how it sounds.

Forwarding this takes thirty seconds. At the global average wage, that costs you six cents. If the treaty path works, your lifetime income goes up by fourteen point nine million dollars. The ratio is two hundred and forty-eight point two million to one. For not forwarding to be rational, the probability of success has to fall below one in two hundred and forty-eight million. You just let all five premises pass. You cannot simultaneously hold those premises and a probability that low. Not forwarding this is not caution. It is the single failure mode the math can't route around.

You don't need to know a billionaire. You're six degrees of separation from one. Forward this to one person with more reach than you. They forward to one person with more reach than them.
Even with ninety percent of the chain dismissing it, the model shows it reaches someone who can act within ten years. Not because anyone in the chain is brave. Because each one is selfish, and the math rewards forwarding.

This is a chain reaction, and it runs on greed.

Every person in the chain will do exactly what you're about to do, for exactly the same selfish reasons. Not to save the world. Because it makes them money.

Humans aren't stupid. You invented cheese, which is milk you left out until it went bad but in a good way. That's genius. You just need to apply that same innovation to not dying.

You've now read the plan. You have the math. You can't give it back.

Right now, somewhere on your planet, a parent is holding a child who is dying of something curable because nobody ran the trial. The parent doesn't know it's curable. The doctor doesn't know it's curable.
The compound that would save this child is sitting on a shelf, untested, because the money that would have funded the trial bought a missile that is also sitting on a shelf, unused, pointed at someone else's children. Not because the science doesn't exist. Not because the money doesn't exist.
Two point seven two trillion dollars a year exists. The child is dying because every single person who could change that decided it wasn't their problem.

You are now one of those people.

If you feel something right now, that's not manipulation. That's the correct response to understanding that ten point seven billion preventable deaths are a policy choice. That number is too large for your brain to feel. So feel one. Pick someone you love.
Imagine the moment a doctor tells you there's nothing left to try, and somewhere on a shelf, untested, sits the compound that would have worked. Now multiply that feeling by a number your brain refuses to hold. The part you can't feel is the actual size of this problem.
Go back and read this paragraph again until you can.

Here is what should scare you: if this works, the world becomes unrecognizable. Not slightly better. Unrecognizable. Disease eradicated, income doubled, your species freed from the thing that has been eating it alive since before you invented writing.
That future is so good your brain can't render it, which is why you're hesitating. The status quo is also unrecognizable, just in the other direction, and you've been living in it so long you've mistaken it for normal. One of these futures has children dying. The other doesn't. Pick.

Thirteen point eight billion years ago, the Big Bang set particles in motion. Those particles formed stars. Stars formed elements. Elements formed you. You read this sentence. The chain reaction that ends war and disease began before your solar system existed. You were never going to not read this.

Physics wouldn't allow it.

Of all the consciousness that has ever flickered into existence across thirteen point eight billion years of matter rearranging itself, yours showed up in the exact moment the loop broke.

Every organism that ever lived did so in the dark: eaten, infected, starved, or killed by its own species, running four billion year old software that optimized for copying molecules and never bothered to ask the molecules if they were in pain. Suffering was physics. Nobody had the math to stop it.

You get to be alive for the part where the math got done and the puppet strings got cut. Not just the part where disease ends. The part where the thing that made you irrational, violent, and incapable of caring about strangers turns out to be a circuit, and circuits can be redesigned.

Where your worst Tuesday feels better than your current best birthday. Where, for the first time in thirteen point eight billion years, the atoms that learned to feel get to choose what they feel.

Go to war on disease dot org and vote. Fifteen seconds. Then forward this to one person with more reach than you. That's it. Every minute you delay, one hundred and four humans permanently stop. Your vote saves thirty-eight point four lives and prevents six point nine million hours of suffering. Those are not metaphors.

Those are people. They have names you'll never learn because they died while you were deciding if this was worth fifteen seconds.

"I didn't know" is no longer available to you.

The universe is literally offering you infinite money and eternal life, and you're thinking about it.

This is why aliens don't visit.