Year One: Move one percent of murder money to medicine money (baby steps).

Year Two: "Hey, we didn't die! Let's do two percent!".

Year Five: "Remember when we spent money on bombs? That was weird.".

Year Ten: "What's a war?".

Year Twenty: "We used to WHAT?!".

It's like weaning a baby off eating paint chips. You can't just take away all the paint chips at once. They'll cry. You have to gradually replace paint chips with food until they forget paint chips were ever an option.

What to Do When They Try to Institutionalize You.

When you suggest moving one percent of murder money to medicine money, other humans will have you committed. Most humans have been programmed by their news boxes to believe war is a law of nature, like gravity or weather. They will assume your brain is malfunctioning.

Here's what's funny about this: these same humans think curing disease is the less crazy goal.

That's 37 trillion cells per human, breaking in seven thousand different ways, involving chemistry you don't fully understand, inside organs you can't fully simulate, fighting pathogens that evolve faster than your treatments. You're trying to debug all of it. At once.
While the meat is walking around using itself.

That: sane.
"Give one percent fewer papers to people who build murder machines": insane.

This is your planet's diagnostic criteria.

Here's what you tell the orderly when he slides your medication through the door slot:

Nobody accidentally builds an aircraft carrier or a nuclear bomb.
War requires you to get millions of humans to work together to mine metal from the ground, refine it into alloys, build factories to shape the alloys into weapons, train millions of humans to operate the weapons, feed and clothe those humans, build ships and planes and trucks to move the weapons to where the other humans are, convince your population the other humans deserve it, and then vote to pay for all of this, annually, forever.
It is the single largest coordinated effort your species undertakes.

Stopping it requires not doing any of that.

Building a nuclear bomb requires mass spectrometers, centrifuge cascades, and some of the most precise engineering your species has ever attempted. Not building a nuclear bomb requires nothing. Rocks do it every day.
In fact, rocks have managed to live peacefully alongside different colored rocks for thousands of years.

But somehow "stop" is the unrealistic part. It's "stop hitting yourself" but for civilizations.

The Sacred Order of Paper Distribution.

After 80 years of observation, I've decoded the paper-giving sequence. This manual will teach you the precise order:

Step One: Get Many Papers from Rich Humans
You convince rich humans to give you papers (at least one billion to be exact) by promising them even more papers later. This is called "investment," which is gambling but wearing a suit.

Step Two: Give Some of the Papers to Loud Humans