Some humans are very loud on the internet. If you give them papers, they become loud about your thing instead of other things. This is called "marketing" which is lying but with graphics.

Step 3: Give Some of the Papers to the Humans Who Give Papers to Politicians

Politicians don't take papers directly (that's "illegal"). Instead, you give papers to people called "lobbyists." The lobbyists give papers to "campaigns." The campaigns give papers to politicians. It's like money laundering but backwards and legal.

Step 4: Give Some of the Papers to the Politicians' Friends

Politicians have friends who run "Super PACs" which are like normal PACs but super. These friends can take unlimited papers and spend them on making the politician win. This isn't bribery because you called it something else. (This is part of the six hundred fifty million dollars lobbying budget.).

Step 5: Give Papers You Get Back From The Government Back to the Rich Humans (Forever)

Your treaty passes, redirecting twenty-seven point two billion dollars in papers annually. Rich humans get two hundred seventy-two percent returns on what they gave you, forever. Politicians get career advancement from voting yes (the same fund pays for both). This is a good deal because forever is a long time. Unless you die from preventable diseases.
Which you're fixing, so it works out.

Why Your Leaders Pretend Not to Understand.

Your leaders aren't confused. They understand that spending two point seven trillion dollars on weapons while spending zero point zero seven trillion dollars on curing diseases is like buying 40 umbrellas while your house is on fire.

They do it anyway because:

Weapons manufacturers give them papers.

Politicians give the papers to people who tell lots more people to vote for them.

Voting for them gives them the power to get more papers.

They use those more papers to buy more power, et cetera.

It's circular, like a dog chasing its tail. Except the dog is democracy and the tail is made of money.

This book explains how to give them MORE papers to do the OPPOSITE thing. It's like training a cat, but the cat has nuclear weapons.

Humanity's Adorable Death Wish.

What's most endearing about your species is it KNOWS it's being illogical:

You have movies about how wars are bad (which you watch between wars).

You have books about peace (that you tax to buy bombs).

You give prizes to people who promote peace (funded by weapons manufacturers).

You have a "Department of Defense" (that mainly just attacks people).

You call your war building "The Pentagon" because it has five sides (this is like naming a hospital "Rectangle" or calling a school "Square").

You have a "Department of Health" (that makes coronaviruses and has not yet produced any observable health).

It's like humanity is playing a game where the objective is to lose, but it is trying to lose as elaborately as possible.

But I digress. That's an Earth word I learned. It means continuing after you should have stopped. Like your military spending.

The Problem.

The Daily Deletion Event.