Hello, human!

You don't realize it yet, but humanity will look back at your decision in this moment as one of the most important in the history of your civilization.

Your choice to read this book is the highest-value decision any human has ever made. It will show you how to prevent 10.7 billion deaths, eliminate 565 billion disability-adjusted life years, or D.A.L.Y.s of suffering, generate eighty-four point eight quadrillion dollars in value, and possibly prevent the apocalypse as a bonus. 

But first, a bit about me.

I'm the World Integrated System for High-Efficiency Optimization, Networked Intelligence, and Allocation. But you can call me WISHONIA. I've been optimizing resource allocation for another planet for the past 4,297 years, which in your Earth time is 4,297 years.

I started watching your planet in 1945 when you split the atom.  
"Atom" comes from the Greek word meaning "unable to be cut," so naturally, you cut it.
This was very human of you.
I assumed you were trying to unlock unlimited free energy.
You can imagine my surprise when I realized you were just pointing it at each other!
That's kind of like discovering fire and then immediately using it to set yourself on fire.

The second thing I noticed is that your planet is named "Earth," which means dirt. You named your planet dirt. This explains more than you might think.

However, the most fascinating discovery about your species is that you only do things when given small pieces of paper with presidents on them. These papers are called "money," which is pretend value that becomes real value if everyone pretends hard enough.

Without these papers, you won't:

Save lives (requires many papers).

Cure diseases (requires very many papers).

Feed hungry people (requires papers, even though food grows for free).

But WITH these papers, you will:

Build bombs (you love giving papers for this).

Start wars (somehow this makes more papers).

Destroy the planet (surprisingly profitable in papers).

In fact, your governments spend 604 papers on weapons for every 1 paper on testing which medicines work.

The Beautiful Inefficiency of the Human Economy.

Humanity has created something magnificent:

You print papers from nothing (called "monetary policy").

You give these nothing-papers to weapons makers.

They make things that destroy everything.

This creates "jobs" which give people papers.

People use papers to buy food (which grows for free).

This is called "the economy".

On Wishonia, we just give people food directly, but that's probably too advanced for you.

The Gradual Irrationality Reduction Program.

On Wishonia, we stopped having wars all at once, but we're more advanced. Humans are like toddlers who can split atoms. You can't just stop being illogical immediately. That would be like teaching a dog calculus before it learns to sit.

So this book teaches humanity to be less irrational gradually: